just the other day we did a video on
ASCAP and BMI the people who had a lot
of publishing for artists in United
States and whether or not Mobil
deviously to carry a license for this to
to pay for publishing no we don't that
was kind of the end result of it
bars have to carry it if you're gonna be
playing in a bar or a club or a
restaurant and you don't have to have
any kind of licensing like that for
private events because it's a private
performance kind of brings me to the
subject of the day which is the
600-pound gorilla back here Jonathan
Alaskans YouTube channel was indeed
suspended this happened about the same
time last year and you didn't get it
back - his video responses I believe you
got all the subscribers back his stats
all that stuff but it's happened again
and and from what I understand what
Jonathan's told me the video in question
didn't even have any material in it so
he doesn't really understand what's
going on and then a lot of the stuff
that he is playing for like CD pool they
have permission I guess to go ahead and
play a lot of this stuff I don't know I
don't know what happened all I can do is
speculate what may have happened or what
may end up happening to me someday the
way I understand it the way YouTube
works is that they pay royalties to
ASCAP BMI whoever they pay it it's like
a blanket deal in the only time videos
are taken down is if the artists
themselves object to the music in that
video so I guess if you were Tom Jones
and all of a sudden if Sun unusual
became the theme song for neo-nazis and
they were doing a bunch of YouTube
videos Tom Jones could say I don't want
to be associated with that and you know
rightly so I guess so
like in some of my videos like I did one
on the Bemis for a while back and this
has happened several times if you look
at some of my videos where i dealing
with mixing i had the track in there
seeds to music factor you got to make
you sweat and I guess Werner found it
and instead of flagging it or instead of
requesting that I remove it or
getting me in trouble I guess are
getting some kind of penalty against me
they just decided to run an ad in my
video that says hey buy this at iTunes
or Amazon or I don't know if they
suggest another site or not but it's a
like little ad that pops up for the song
itself I don't have a problem with that
that song does belong to whoever belongs
to and they have every right to cash in
though I wasn't trying to cash in I
guess was kind of the point there's a
thing called fair usage and I think that
we should fall under that category as
DJs since we're not really selling
anything here we're just kind of showing
what we do and how we do it we need
music to do it usually Mauro did a video
about this how are we supposed to do
this without using tunes and not only
that but since we are DJs and we're you
know jamming tunes and we have others
other DJ's watching us aren't we kind of
promoting music for artists and why
would they even be upset about that
unless of course they disagreed with how
we were handling it or what we were
doing or if we were doing it in a way
that that somehow offended them or
didn't go with what they felt like was
their image yeah it's a weird thing you
know in fact I was listening to Howard
Stern today and Susan Boyle the lady I
believe she's she Irish I don't remember
maybe she's Welsh I don't remember where
she's from but she was this big I guess
Europe's Got Talent star or something
that popped up and and she's got this
like opera singer kind of voice she
wanted to sing Lou Reed's perfect day
and Lou Reed said now he can't sing my
song and I don't know if it was for the
Brit Awards or what it was for but she
was pretty upset about that but Lou Reed
was just like hey quite frankly I'm not
a fan and I don't want to be associated
with Susan Boyle from whatever reason
Lou had be it a legitimate you know
reason or not it's really up to him who
plays his Tunes and artists I guess
reserve that right I just kind of wish
that either some artists or alternately
a label or
someone who owns a lot of publishing
would reach out to our community the
DJ's and say hey look I understand that
let's say this and this singer they
don't want you to have their Tunes in
your videos but hey you're welcome to
use our things anytime you want Freddie
fresh said that I could use anything
that I wanted to of his and I've used a
lot of fresh tunes and you most like me
there's fair usage though which is a
weird thing and I don't quite understand
the the difference there was a case I
guess a couple of years ago where there
was a couple who had a baby I'm the baby
was in a baby jumper and the song I
think it was let's go crazy by Prince
came on like in the background and this
little baby started hopping and then we
just kind of had a laugh and thought it
was cute the baby screaming over and
everything else Prince threw a fit and
flagged the video and said no you can't
have this video up there was a court
case about this because I guess it was a
fair usage it was just kind of one of
those things that's out there it's it's
it's a song that is on the radio a lot
it's on television it pops up and if
someone happens to be rolling a camera
when it comes on that's I guess okay you
can't own our lives you can't own all of
our experiences so for some reason that
was that the court ruled for the people
who had the baby jumpin and ruled
against Prince on that one so it's all
very mysterious isn't it but anyway
Alaskans you can find him on his new
YouTube channel again Alaskans with a Z
or Zed however you want to say that the
link right down here in the description
of this video if you have any questions
comments whatever please ask away
parkus and enjoy